# Turning Flowchart into Dialog
We provide an advanced version of flowchart dialogue dataset with dialogue act labelling.

**[Turning Flowchart into Dialog: Augmenting Flowchart-grounded Troubleshooting Dialogs via Synthetic Data Generation (ALTA'23)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.01323)**

**Abstract:** Flowchart-grounded troubleshooting dialogue (FTD) systems, which follow the instructions of a flowchart to diagnose users’ problems in specific domains (e.g., vehicle, laptop), have been gaining research interest in recent years. However, collecting sufficient dialogues that are naturally grounded on flowcharts is costly, thus FTD systems are impeded by scarce training data. To mitigate the data sparsity issue, we propose a plan-based synthetic data generation (PlanSDG) approach that generates diverse
synthetic dialog data at scale by transforming concise flowchart into dialogues. Specifically, its generative model employs a variational-base framework with a hierarchical planning strategy that includes global and local latent planning variables. Experiments on the FloDial dataset show that synthetic dialogue produced by PlanSDG improves the performance of downstream tasks, including flowchart path retrieval and response generation, in particular on the Out-of-Flowchart settings. In addition, further analysis demonstrate the quality of synthetic data generated by PlanSDG in paths that are covered by current sample dialogues and paths that are not covered.


## Dataset Download

You can directly download the data in our repo.


## Citation
We appreciate your citation if you find our dataset beneficial.

```bib
@inproceedings{zhan2023flowchart,
author = {Zhan, Haolan and Maruf, Sameen and Qu, Lizhen and Wang, Yufei and Zukerman, Ingrid and Haffari, Gholamreza},
title = {Turning Flowchart into Dialog: Augmenting Flowchart-grounded Troubleshooting Dialogs via Synthetic Data Generation},
journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.01323},
year={2023}
}
```
